2017-09-25 P2 Core Competencies/README.md, before:

# 2017-09-25 P2 to P3 Grad Topics - Core Competencies for P2

## What you need to know to get into P3

- Can construct an express app with GET and POST routes, which properly returns JSON with relevant headers and status code.
- Can use `git` (consistent commits, branching) and all typical shell commands for full stack development effectively.
  - Can use a branching strategy where new features are added in branches and then merged back into the master branch. Can use either FF merge or merge-commits.
  - Clearly understands difference between pushing/pulling, committing/merging, fetching, etc.
- Can create an interactive front-end webpage using HTML, CSS and JavaScript which manipulates the DOM based on user interaction.
  - Can create a HTML & CSS web page given a wireframe.
- Skillful in using callbacks and promises for async JavaScript
  - Can test async functions using Mocha and Chai (**NOTE: do a lecture on this**)
- Can create a fully functional SQL back-end to an app (using both `pg` and `pg-promise`)
  - Can create a schema to model different types of data, including one-to-one, one-to-many or many-to-many relationships.
- Can use javascript ES6 features, including:
  - arrow functions, template literals, javascript constructors, the `this` operator, `bind` vs `call` vs `apply`
  - Scope and hoisting (**NOTE: do a lecture on this... lots of frinkled foreheads**)
  - Closures and IIFE's

## Two ways to merge a branch using git
```
### Merge commit:

-*-*-*-*------------
         \*-*-*-*-*-

git merge feature1 --no-ff

-*-*-*-*------------*
         \*-*-*-*-*-/


### Fast-forward commit (this is the git default):

-*-*-*-*------------
         \*-*-*-*-*-

git merge feature1

-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
```

Commit message:

Updated what you need to know for P3

2017-09-25 P2 Core Competencies/README.md, after:

# 2017-09-25 P2 to P3 Grad Topics - Core Competencies for P2

## What you need to know to get into P3

- Can construct an express app with GET and POST routes, which properly returns JSON with relevant headers and status code.
  - Can correctly describe HTTP anatomy, role of client and server in HTTP exchanges, what express routes are, different ways to take in parameters and information in express routes, role of bodyParser, etc.
- Can use `git` (consistent commits, branching) and all typical shell commands for full stack development effectively.
  - Can use a branching strategy where new features are added in branches and then merged back into the master branch. Can use either FF merge or merge-commits.
  - Clearly understands difference between pushing/pulling, committing/merging, fetching, etc.
- Can create an interactive front-end webpage using HTML, CSS and JavaScript which manipulates the DOM based on user interaction.
  - Can create a HTML & CSS web page given a wireframe.
- Skillful in using callbacks and promises for async JavaScript
  - Can test async functions using Mocha and Chai (**NOTE: do a lecture on this**)
- Can create a fully functional SQL back-end to an app (using both `pg` and `pg-promise`)
  - Can create a schema to model different types of data, including one-to-one, one-to-many or many-to-many relationships.
- Can use javascript ES6 features, including:
  - arrow functions, template literals, javascript constructors, the `this` operator, `bind` vs `call` vs `apply`
  - Scope and hoisting (**NOTE: do a lecture on this... lots of frinkled foreheads**)
  - Closures and IIFE's

## Two ways to merge a branch using git
```
### Merge commit:

-*-*-*-*------------
         \*-*-*-*-*-

git merge feature1 --no-ff

-*-*-*-*------------*
         \*-*-*-*-*-/


### Fast-forward commit (this is the git default):

-*-*-*-*------------
         \*-*-*-*-*-

git merge feature1

-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
```
